#### **1. What is stored within each message object passed into the queue for this program?**

Each message object is a struct AMessage which stores:
- `ulMessageID` – the task ID that created the message.
- `ulTimeStamp` – the tick count at the time the message was sent.
  
#### 2. Why can the two receive tasks read from their queues without using a mutex?

Because FreeRTOS queues have inbuilt synchronisation using semaphores making them inherently thread safe. This makes it so only one task can access a queue (read or write) at a time.

#### 3. Where is the data stored in memory when we pass the message by value and where is it when we pass it by a pointer?

When passed by value the full struct is copied and stored in the queues memory. But when passed by pointer only the message address is stored in queue memory the struct is kept on the sending tasks stack

#### 4. Use uxQueueMessagesWaiting() inside one of the Receive tasks and print its value. What numbers do you see while the program runs, and what do they mean?

Returns result of:
`Queue 1 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 63
`Queue 2 receives from Task 2 at time stamp = 64
`Queue 2 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 65
`Number of messages waiting 0
`Queue 1 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 66
`Queue 2 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 67
`Number of messages waiting 0
`Queue 1 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 68
`Queue 2 receives from Task 1 at time stamp = 69
`Queue 2 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 70
`Number of messages waiting 0 

Returns only value of 0 due to the fact that the queue is clearing faster than its being reported not creating a backlog of messages. Should be noted that simulated traffic can result in different values using vTaskDelay();

#### 5. Change the queue length from 4 to 1 in the example program. Write down what you observe change in the behaviour of the program and explain why.

`Queue 2 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 189
`Before: 0
`Queue 1 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 190
`After: 0
`Queue 2 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 191
`Before: 0
`Queue 1 receives from Task 0 at time stamp = 192
`After: 0

It becomes a more predictable pattern of 121212 due to only having a queue length of 1 meaning only one message queued at a time. the receiver blocks on QueueReceive and if the queue is empty it yields for 10 ticks which allows for a sender to fill the queue 


#### 6. List two problems that can happen when we send a pointer instead of a copy, and give one way to stop each problem.

If a pointer is sent in a queue and then the variable gets modified before the receiving task dequeues the receiving task get corrupted or unexpected data. a fix is sending the entire struct instead

if a pointer with the same data structure to multiple tasks is sent and more than one task tries to change it the data can be corrupted or not expected by another task. can be fixed by using semaphores to allow only one access at a time